[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH:
Welcome to the show.
I'm Emery Smith.
I'm here again with David Adair.
David, welcome to the show.
>>DAVID ADAIR: Thank
you for having me.
>>EMERY: One of the things that
crossed my mind all the time
is meeting someone like
you that has actually
had hands-on experience
in-- we call them
ARVs, alien
reproduction vehicles.
If we have an
extraterrestrial vehicle,
we will try to 3D
print these things.
We will scan them before even
touching them to make sure
that there's nothing
too harmful in there
or whether or not we should
open the device up or not.
You actually hand-carved,
from what I've heard--
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>EMERY: --a vehicle.
[LAUGHS]
I find all this funny because
you call it alien reproduction
vehicles, ARV.
God, I've done this
all my life and I never
thought it had a name like that.
My mother was a master
modeler, and so I learned
building models from her.
And I'm not talking
about model kits.
I'm talking about dragging out
a 100 or 500-pound block of clay
and go to work on things.
That's how I built Pitholem.
I couldn't find a standard
off-the-shelf rocket body.
Everything was way
too weak, flimsy.
It'd be like trying to use
balsa wood against a battleship.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: It's just a crazy
story the way it developed.
Art Bell was the first
to ask me about it.
And I came out and I said,
yeah, I built Pitholem
out of this raw material
that General LeMay had
to go find because, I said, the
rockets aren't going to work.
We built the engine.
Now we've got to build the
rocket around the engine.
And LeMay actually
liked that approach.
He said, that makes
sense actually.
But I told him, I need
different materials.
He goes, what kind of materials?
Raw materials, stuff
that doesn't exist.
I said, I need something
extremely hard, take high heat,
and it can be heavy.
The heavier it is, the better
it is because, normally, that's
the opposite of a normal rocket.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: You're trying to
make thin walls, less weight,
move fast.
No, I had the problem.
I had a power curve
I was dealing with.
And that power curve
was telling me,
you know, this thing
can launch a building,
so I've got to have
something heavy.
So LeMay, gone for a few days.
Comes back, and he
tells me, I think
I've found a material
that would work.
We've got six tons of it.
Six tons, that should be enough.
How much volume is six tons?
Because six tons of
aluminum would fill a room.
>>EMERY: Right.
That's a lot.
>>ADAIR: Six tons of lead would
just be the size of a desk.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: And he said, you
do think about this stuff,
don't you?
I said, yeah, I have to.
So he said, this is really
heavy and really dense.
I said, well, where
did you get it?
He goes, England.
I said, yeah, what company?
He said, you know,
you can't know.
I can't tell you.
What's the origin of it?
As far as you need
to know, unknown.
Who is they?
>>EMERY: Yeah, who?
>>ADAIR: And he goes, people.
>>EMERY: Oh.
OK, I know that.
>>ADAIR: You know.
I said, people, OK.
Well did them people
have any spec sheets?
No.
I went, oh, God.
So the material comes in.
We sit it down on
the floor and, I
mean, we're using
big forklift, Hyster.
Set it down, and it's heavy
because I can hear the floor--
[IMITATES CREAKING]
--you know, taking the weight.
>>EMERY: What's it look like?
>>ADAIR: Oh, man.
It's square.
It's a big block.
And we get the
packing off of it.
And normally, when something
like that would come in,
I'd try to unpack it myself--
>>EMERY: Mm-hm.
>>ADAIR: And I dig for labels.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: Because they take
all the labels off of it.
But every once in
a while, you know,
I've been inspected by number
D. Well, I find something.
So I knew it came from
England, but a tiny little tag
down there said S.H.A.P.E.
with a dot after each letter.
And thanks to Bob Dean, I knew
what that was years later.
I didn't know at the time I was
looking at it, but S.H.A.P.E.
is Supreme Headquarters
Allied Powers Europe.
And Bob Dean, that's
where he worked.
He worked with Colonel
Corso, and both of them
were charged with finding
all foreign technologies.
So I'm looking at
that, I remember back
when I found the
S.H.A.P.E. thing,
hid it because I didn't want
anyone to know I saw it,
and this thing is sitting there.
It's a big block of--
the color of this stuff
is hard to describe.
It's iridescent.
And it would change colors
when lights hit it, you know,
like a rolling sheen.
And that's the next
thing, the sheen of it.
It looked like it
was wet, so shiny.
>>EMERY: Was it radioactive?
>>ADAIR: No.
That's a good question.
First thing I do when
something like that comes in,
grab a Geiger counter.
>>EMERY: Get a Geiger counter?
>>ADAIR: So it was flat
on the Geiger counter,
but every time I got near it, my
hair would stand straight out.
I'm going, man, the
static electricity.
So I just had a
compass in my desk,
and I thought, well,
let's see what happens.
Get near it, man, the compass
just spun like a drill bit.
You know--
[IMITATES WHIRRING]
And I thought, God.
So I wanted to see if
that sheen was all the way
through the metal, or
if we're going to be
dealing with some other color.
So I grab a drill
bit and drill on it,
and the drill just slides
all over the surface,
not making a single
scratch anywhere.
I said, fine.
I'll get a punch and get
a foothold on this thing.
So I grab a punch and
about a five-pound hammer.
Ping!
The punch went clear
to the ceiling.
Looked down, not a scratch.
So I can't do anything with it.
>>EMERY: Well, how
can you shape it?
>>ADAIR: Well, that's
the next set of problems.
So LeMay comes in and
he says, how's it look?
I said, pretty, nice and shiny.
I said, so damn hard I can't
even make a scratch on it.
You got any spec sheets?
No.
What's the flash point?
We're going to probably
have to cast this thing.
And he looked at me.
He said, casting?
Yeah, you're going
to have to cast this.
He said, well, what's
the molds then?
And I thought, I'll
have to make them.
And he's looking at me.
He goes, you can make
molds for this whole thing?
I said, sure, it's modeling.
So he said, what do you need?
500 pounds of modeling clay.
So they bring in this--
>>EMERY: The next big chunk.
>>ADAIR: The next forklift
comes in with a damn big block.
>>EMERY: That's a big block.
>>ADAIR: Oh, it was as
big as a sofa, a couch.
>>EMERY: Right.
That's what we use
to make cars with.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I look like a Ford
engineer over there.
>>EMERY: I'm just thinking of
you and Lamborghini back there.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, exactly.
>>EMERY: You know, shaving
off these edges of this craft.
>>ADAIR: Well,
that's what I did.
I just rolled the thing out
in the middle of the room
and started doing my
measurements off the engine.
I'm going to have to build
the body around the engine.
It's no big deal.
You get all these clay tools,
your shapers, bends, spoons,
all this stuff.
And you start scraping and
scraping and modeling it
and look at it by eye and
just keep working on it.
Well, about a week
later, I finally
get the first mold section
done, and it fits perfectly
with the engine.
That's the front half.
Then there's a second
half on the backside.
The engine's right in
the middle of the rocket.
>>EMERY: Mm-hm.
>>ADAIR: The whole idea is to--
you know, it's very
simple physics.
You blow up a
balloon, let go of it.
You go--
[IMITATES DEFLATING]
It takes off.
As the air is pushing on the
end of the balloon and it's
coming out the nozzle,
thrust, rocket or jet engine.
In this case, it's a rocket.
So what the air is pushing
on the end of the balloon
we call a diffuser wall.
So I had to build the
first-- the diffuser wall.
That's what the engine
is going to push on.
>>EMERY: This is
the Pitholem engine.
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>ADAIR: So I had to build
a cradle for the engine
to fit into.
And it cannot be, you know,
ribs or beams or brackets.
No, we're talking solid
metal, four feet thick.
And people go, well, that thing
will never get off the ground.
Uh-uh.
I'm working on a power
curve you've got to see.
>>EMERY: And that's why you
need this special material?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I would've welded a safe on
it if it would've worked.
I just need tremendous
weight to slow it down.
The problem is not going to be
not enough speed getting up.
It's trying to keep it contained
because this whole system isn't
made to be launched from Earth.
It's really designed to
be launched in space.
But I'm going to have to
overcome the power curve
problem because that power curve
is going to launch an Empire
State Building.
So that's what I'm dealing with.
The ascension is going
to be so fast, that thing
is going to be red hot
going through the atmosphere
like they do when they
come in on a descent.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: I'm going to have
the same problem going ascent.
>>EMERY: Oh yeah.
That's how fast you're going.
So what speeds
are we looking at?
>>ADAIR: Eventually,
when we get to launch,
I cover 125 miles
in 3.2 seconds.
>>EMERY: So you make this mold.
And now the next step is what?
>>ADAIR: Well, we sprayed
polyurethane onto the mold
to make it hard.
And then we lifted
it out of there,
and all the Air Force
people lifted it out.
Then we would crate
it up, and we send it
to some place LeMay had.
And I said, man,
what kind of furnace
are you going to
melt this thing?
You won't tell me
the flash point.
Either you know and you're not
telling me or you don't know.
I said, it's got
to be incredible.
I said, we need the sun.
And he looked at me.
He said, well, how
perceptive of you?
Yeah, we're using nuclear fire.
And I'm going, God
almighty, you're
going to use a nuclear
furnace, wherever that is.
So anyway, we send
the casting off,
and then I work on
the second parts
and some intermediate
parts, but I make
casting parts for everything.
Finally get it all
done, and I remember--
you know, we're doing
this in sections, right?
So the whole thing's
not been put together.
And LeMay was already
starting to-- he's keeping a--
it's like I'm
under a microscope.
But he's already seeing
what the overall look's
going to be when I'm done.
And he said, god almighty.
He goes, I've seen
some rockets in my day.
He said, that thing looks like
something from another world.
And I said, hmm.
More people were
right than you think.
>>EMERY: You were inspired.
>>ADAIR: I guess so, and you're
channeling it, they call it.
But I got all the castings
done, sent them out,
and I've never told anybody
this part of the story.
Nobody's ever asked me.
The more you get down
to the nuts and bolts,
all this keeps rolling out
because, well, first of all,
you're making me
remember everything.
I remember clearly seeing myself
in the shop on that clay mold.
I looked like a mud
diver for a week.
[LAUGHING]
And your feet would
stick to the floor.
Air Force people came in and
scraped up a lot of stuff,
and they helped.
But anyway--
>>EMERY: They probably thought
you were just a slob back
there--
>>ADAIR: Yeah, well-- no,
they actually thought--
>>EMERY: --covered
head to toe with this.
I can see you with this clay.
>>ADAIR: They were
very supportive.
They just thought
this whole project--
some of them were experienced--
what you call black op people.
>>EMERY: Sure, yeah.
>>ADAIR: So God knows
what they've seen.
But they would come up
to me and go, damn, kid.
I know you're only 17, but
I've been at this for years.
I've seen stuff I can't
even begin to tell you.
But I want to tell you, you
are out there on the edge.
You are so far out there,
you're coming back.
And I went, whatever that means.
But he said, really
cool-looking stuff you're doing.
So we send everything
off, and LeMay tells me
about the material.
I'm begging.
You know, please,
God, for God's sake,
tell me something
what I'm working with.
And he gives me
the name, carbnite.
Now when I said that on
Art Bell back in '97,
all these experts
come flying at me.
He's a lying-- you know,
he don't know nothing.
That's what they froze Han
Solo in in "Star Wars."
He's just copying it.
I'm from the South.
I approach English as
a second language, OK?
Come from the land where y'all
is singular and all y'all is
plural.
So it's carbnite, not carbonite.
C-A-R-B-N-I-T-E, that's what
I'm working with, carbnite.
Carbonite is what you
froze Han Solo in.
Stuff's called carbnite.
There's only six tons of it
in the world, and that's it.
Origin, unknown.
Other specs on it, unknown.
And I don't know, it could
have been a crate that
fell off an alien cargo ship.
I don't know.
>>EMERY: It had to
come from somewhere.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, but, God, it was
nothing like I've ever seen.
And I was wondering,
is the sheen still
going to be there after going
through a nuclear furnace?
You know, is it going to
be flat in color or what?
Well, the first parts came
back and we opened them up.
And I swear to god,
the exact same sheen's
there, completely shaped
into the casting I made.
And I got the old
punch and hammer again.
>>EMERY: Uh-huh.
>>ADAIR: Can't
make a mark on it.
And I'm going, God almighty,
who's working this stuff?
So anyway, all the parts
came back in, hooked it all
together, Pitholem was born.
That was June 20, 1971.
But to get to this point
I'm telling you about,
26 and a half months, seven
days a week, 14, 16 hours a day.
>>EMERY: You used
all six tons of it?
>>ADAIR: All of it.
There's no more of this.
So one half of phase
one is where we're at.
I want to go all the
way to phase four,
but come to find out, they
stop at one half of phase one.
They got what they wanted,
a speed vehicle in like--
>>EMERY: What kind of cargo?
>>ADAIR: Well, that
was to be determined.
I didn't know what
they wanted to do.
But come to find out
later, they wanted
to put a thermonuclear
warhead on it
and aim it at the Soviet Union.
But there's more designs
to the whole thing.
It's a bigger
program than just me.
I'm part of the program.
The whole program was--
you've got to know General
LeMay, chief of the Joint
Chiefs, nicknamed Bombs Away
LeMay, bombed the living
daylights out of everything that
was living in World War II, one
of the principal people
responsible for our success
in World War II.
He became the chief
of the Joint Chiefs,
designer of the B-52
Stratofortress, founder of SAC,
Strategic Air Command,
our nuclear defense force.
>>EMERY: Massive.
>>ADAIR: Guy's got
massive oomph with him.
And he's the one that said
in history, to the North
Vietnamese, if you don't come
to the Paris peace talks,
I'm going to bomb you
back into the Stone Age.
That's who said
it, General LeMay.
Next day, he's fired by
Secretary of Defense Robert
McNamara.
Did that slow him down?
No, it was like stepping
on the accelerator
because, if you just
look a pictures of him,
he's not going to be fired.
So he's got designs,
and what he wanted was--
he wants the B-52s
retired, replaced
by 45 XB-70s called a Valkyrie.
This Valkyrie thing
you had to see.
It's a delta wing bomber.
The delta wing is gigantic.
It'd fill a football field.
People walk on it and they
look like specks on this thing.
So they wanted to
take the Valkyrie,
take Pitholem, shove a couple
Pitholems into Valkyrie.
>>EMERY: Oh, goodness.
>>ADAIR: You come in
2,000 miles an hour
to fail-safe, to the Soviet
radar net, open up the bomb
bay doors.
And just as you're penetrating
fail-safe, drop Pitholem out.
Here she goes into
ludicrous speed.
The Soviets will look on
the scopes and see a streak
and go, what's that?
And by the time they say,
what's, they're dust.
>>EMERY: They're gone.
>>ADAIR: They're gone.
So they win MAD, mutual
assured destruction,
a program we live under today.
And it goes that, you're
America, I'm Soviet Union.
If we attack each
other, you can be
mutually assured we're
going to kill each other,
and we don't fight.
However, if you've got
first strike capability,
it means I hit you so fast
you can't retaliate, I win.
>>EMERY: This is about speed.
>>ADAIR: I'm pulled
into all this stuff.
>>EMERY: Oh, goodness.
>>ADAIR: And they didn't
tell me anything about this.
I'm learning it, finding
out as we're going--
>>EMERY: So basically,
you're telling me the fastest
person to kill the planet wins.
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
So the whole thing was
just what it was, mad.
>>EMERY: This is how they think.
>>ADAIR: Crazy.
And they were so
focused on one thing,
that I delivered a
really fast vehicle.
It's really simple.
They just wanted
something really fast.
Gave it to them.
But what the idiots
are missing, it's
like they're getting a
kiss through a screen door
or taking a shower
with a raincoat on.
They're missing
the whole program.
If you work with me on this
and let me finish all the way
to phase four,
this thing's going
to give you gifts that
you're not going to believe.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: You're going to end
up with inertia dampeners.
You're going to end
up with force fields.
up with star travel.
And I'm not talking "Star Trek."
They're slow.
So that's what we could have had
for real, not some TV series.
>>EMERY: So what led
you to blow this up?
>>ADAIR: Well, I found
out what they want to do,
and Pitholem was sitting
out on the desert floor.
Just flew in, literally
just landed with parachutes,
and dropped right down on where
they wanted at Groom Lake.
And I thought, oh,
this is just great.
How do you blow up
a top-secret weapon
system that's on
a secret Air Force
Base that doesn't even exist?
And you're 17 years old
and you're by yourself.
How are you going to do that?
Somebody tell me what to do.
So I look down at
the big hangar doors,
and there's a hub
of a big wheel and I
see it sitting in the hub.
It's graphite grease.
So I go over there
and just really wasn't
pretending that
much, just sobbing.
And that bothered
Arthur Rudolph.
It was like fingernails
on a chalkboard.
He couldn't stand it.
So I start whining
and crying, saying,
I need to see my rocket.
Are you going to
take it away from me?
He just can't-- you
know, he's a sociopath.
I knew that would bother him.
So I'm leaning against the
door, slide down, put my hand--
get a wad of graphite grease.
So finally, Rudolph said, shut
him up and take him out there
and let him see his rocket.
So we get in this
golf cart thing
and we go riding out there.
>>EMERY: That was the mistake.
>>ADAIR: That was a big
mistake on their part.
So I get out there and
I still have the key
to the side panels.
So open the doors and
take the graphite grease
and shove it down
into the induction
tube of the cyclotron.
Close everything back up, set
the cyclotrons on 60 seconds,
and they'll start winding up.
And ask anybody what happens
when deuterium meets graphite,
especially if it's compressed
to the speed of light.
>>EMERY: Very hot.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, violent reaction.
So we're in the golf cart.
And I turn around and
tell these guards--
they don't know any better--
hey, this thing's
got a fuel leak.
It's going to explode.
We have got to get out of here.
So I jump in the cart.
They look at each other.
They jump in the cart
and figure, God almighty.
So they said, what's
a safe distance
to get away from the explosion?
I thought, oh, God, what
if this thing goes nuclear?
And I looked at them
and said, Chicago?
And the guards go--
they step on that
thing and we're just
hitting the high spots.
And I'm sitting there
going, well, gee,
I hope it stays conventional.
Never done this before.
>>EMERY: Find out.
>>ADAIR: We'll find out.
And we get to the main
hangars and I get out.
And I'm walking toward
Rudolph, then all of a sudden,
there's this flash
on the hanger.
And I'm thinking--
>>EMERY: Oh, my God.
>>ADAIR: --oh, God, that
looks like a nuclear flash.
So I spin around real
quick and I thought, well,
I'll make a good
shadow on a wall.
And it was a
conventional explosion,
but God almighty, the
concussion wave floored us all.
Rudolph, guards,
we all went down.
And Rudolph gets up
and he asks the guards,
what did he tell you?
See, that's how
smart this guy is.
He said there was a fuel leak.
And he looks at me
and he goes, there's
no such thing as a fuel leak.
So he walks over to
me and he looks at me,
grabs me by my arms, and
he rolls my hands over.
There's the graphite grease.
And how fast is he?
Turns around and looks
at the hangar doors.
He was brilliant.
And I got hit right
then by him, backhand.
He was a little old
grandfather-looking guy.
Man, he could hit.
And there's a line on
the inside of my lip.
He pushed my lower
teeth through my lip.
I mean, it was a bad hit.
And I'm on all fours and
bleeding all over the concrete
and I'm spitting
all this blood out.
Here all these guns go cocking.
And I thought, man, it's just
getting worse by the minute.
So I look up and the guns
aren't pointed at me.
They're pointed at Rudolph.
Their fathers fought
Rudolph in World War II.
These guys have just
seen this sociopath
Nazi hit a Midwest teenager
badly in front of them,
so they all pull
their guns on Rudolph.
And I spit all this blood
out and I tell Rudolph,
you don't look like
you're in charge, Rudolph.
[LAUGHS]
>>EMERY: Oh, no you didn't.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I got him wound up a little bit.
And he told everybody,
stand down, pick him up,
and they did pick me up.
And then they took me to a
room in the hangar bay area,
went out the back of the
hangar to some other building,
and I got locked in this room.
The only thing, hanging
is one light bulb
by a wire and a door, and
that's it, no windows, nothing.
And Rudolph, on the
way over, stopped
at this lab-looking room,
looked like an ER room.
And he pulls back this
sheet, and there's
this cadaver laying there.
It's a 17-year-old male.
>>EMERY: Hm.
>>ADAIR: Same height
and weight as me.
And he said this will be burnt
and sent back to my parents
and said I was killed
at White Sands,
and you'll be here for
the rest of your life.
And this is a guy who's killed
over 100,000 people personally
in metaverse in
Peenemunde when they
were building the V-2 rockets.
And I'm sitting there
going, oh, I am so screwed.
So they throw me in this room.
I'm sitting there.
Pitholem's gone, I'm
bleeding, and I'm
going to be here forever.
And I'm looking at
that cord going,
I wonder if I could
electrocute myself.
So I was there probably--
I don't know, maybe eight hours.
>>EMERY: That's a long time.
>>ADAIR: And I hear this
noise out in the hallway.
And it's all this cussing and
people being thrown around.
And the door is kicked
open, and there's
this big square-shouldered
silhouette
with a stogie like this.
And he's got this colonel
of Area 51's tie wrapped
around his hand, and banged
his head on the wall.
And he looks at him.
He said, who did that?
And he said, we
didn't, we didn't.
Arthur Rudolph did
and he just left.
Where is he?
He took off in his own plane.
Find him.
And I know the voice.
It's General LeMay.
So he's looking at me.
He said, get him out from
there, clean him up, and put him
on my plane.
And I was sitting
there and we took off,
and we flew all the way
back to Wright-Patterson.
>>EMERY: What happened to
the program after that?
>>ADAIR: Well, he told me--
he's looking at me.
And I just looked at me, and
I had an ice pack on my lip.
And I asked him, why
did you come and get me?
He said, well, when Rudolph had
Colonel Williams arrested back
at White Sands and put him in
his quarters and house arrested
him--
Williams is not a wussy.
He was a blue beret.
So he overpowered his guards,
got to a radio, called me
at Wright-Patterson, told
me where they took me,
and he said, I flew
straight out here.
And I'll let you in on
a couple of secrets.
LeMay may have been
retired at the time,
but he could fly in and
out of those bases at will.
When you're that former
chief of the Joint Chiefs--
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: --four-star
general, that's a lifetime.
And the colonel that he was
throwing around the hallway,
he put him there.
Who do you think
appoints the personnel--
>>EMERY: Of course.
>>ADAIR: --to these big bases?
He did.
He's big bad Bombs
Away LeMay and all.
But he looked at me
and he said, you're
about the same age
as my grandkids.
I just couldn't leave you there.
He said, I'm going to burn the
paper trails and everything,
and he did.
But he missed some
stuff and I found it.
And he told me, he left
me with this warning.
He said, they're not through.
Rudolph's not through.
His alphabet soup groups
aren't through with you.
They still very much want
a first strike system.
You're the hottest
ticket there is.
He said, the only thing you've
got to defend yourself with
is let them kill you before
you ever build another rocket.
Don't ever build another one.
Because if you do--
>>EMERY: Then they'll
kill you after.
It's definite, yeah.
>>ADAIR: Yeah,
that's what he said,
then they'll kill you
and take it again.
Just don't ever build one.
And he said, I don't know
what's going to happen next.
>>EMERY: Right.
Where did the molds go?
>>ADAIR: They never came back.
>>EMERY: Ah, that's right.
They wouldn't.
>>ADAIR: They kept them--
>>EMERY: That makes sense.
We'd do the same.
>>ADAIR: --at casting.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>ADAIR: So everything's gone.
And see, there's
another vital part
that I skipped in the story.
My dad smoked a
pipe all the time,
and he and I would sit and talk.
And he felt bad for me.
He says, you know,
you're just a kid.
And this whole thing going
on with the Air Force,
you building this rocket,
he said, you know,
things are going to get
out of hand probably.
I said, yeah.
If they do and I ever
talk to you and I'm gone
and I call back and
I say, everything's
fine, just light your
pipe and take it easy,
if I tell you to light
your pipe, go into the lab,
pull everything out, all the
drawings, all the books--
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: --everything,
burn everything.
Burn the models.
Burn everything.
Leave the building
where it is because it's
kind of a cool facility,
but burn everything else.
So when I was at
Area 51, Groom Lake,
they showed up at our house.
>>EMERY: Ah
>>ADAIR: And all they found
was this real irate drunk man
in the back with a lot
of smoke and ashes.
And they were pissed,
but they left.
And LeMay said, you done
destroyed your prototype,
you wiped out the lab.
He said he would do his part
and wipe out paper trails,
and it's going to make it
very difficult for them.
It's only going to be you left.
So I went back--
let's see-- back to
Wright-Patterson.
Car took me all the way back
to my home in Mount Liberty.
And I went to school
that fall, and that's
how I spent my summer vacation
as a junior, my high school
year.
The fall was quiet.
Winter was quiet.
Spring, I graduated.
I'm in graduation line shaking
hands with the parents,
I'm in a cap and gown, I got a
full scholarship to Ohio State
in theoretical astrophysics.
I wanted to be a professor,
teach the rest of my life,
keel over, that's it.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: So I'm shaking
hands with the parents.
Yeah, I'm going to--
and I grab this hand over
here and it's ice cold.
I turn around and it's
two guys in black suits,
white shirts, little skinny
ties, mirror sunglasses.
What is it with these guys
and that attire, you know?
And he hands me this letter.
And I open it up and it
says, greetings, I'm drafted.
It's June 10, 1972.
>>EMERY: They're
making you join.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>EMERY: The war's almost over.
>>ADAIR: The draft didn't
shut down until 1975.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: This is June 10,
1972, and they grab me.
I'm in cap and gown.
They drag me across
the parking lot.
And all the kids are
wondering what's going on.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: And on my
DVD, they actually
find these kids
and interview them.
They said, yeah, we don't
know what happened that day.
They drug him off, threw
him in a blue station wagon,
and he was gone.
>>EMERY: So there was
a lot of witnesses.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
And they said, we heard him
yell to his parents something
about legal conscription.
It means that they can
physically take you legally.
So they did.
And a couple hours later, we're
at Port Columbus in Columbus,
Ohio at the airport.
We go down to the end to
MAT, Military Air Transport,
and there's Rudolph
waiting with a jet.
>>EMERY: Mm-mm.
This is the first time you've
seen him since the incident.
>>ADAIR: Since then.
>>EMERY: Oh, no.
>>ADAIR: That's
who's orchestrating
the whole damn thing.
I didn't know there's this
internal civil war going on.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: I get out
of the station wagon.
Rudolph and his guys
come out, and they
pull their MPK5s and
whatever, and they're
looking big and bad.
And then another truck pulls
up behind our station wagon.
All these Air Force guys jump
out, got all theses M16s.
They all cock and load.
Now they're pointing
guns at each other.
>>EMERY: Oh, no.
This is a huge contest--
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and
I'm going, oh, God.
>>EMERY: --of who gets you.
>>ADAIR: Who gets me?
I'm standing there
in between them.
I thought, I should just
start a firefight right here,
die in the middle of it,
and be the end of it.
But I was looking at
all these young guys,
and I could see they
wanted to go home.
So I walked over
to Colonel Williams
and said, let me go
with him, Rudolph,
and let all your guys go home.
I'll deal with this.
Williams looked at me.
He said, you sure?
Yeah, just let me go.
>>EMERY: That's very brave.
>>ADAIR: Well, I didn't want any
of these people to get shot up.
So I got on board with Rudolph.
We take off.
And a few hours later, there we
are, Langley, home of the CIA.
And then Rudolph starts in.
I'm put in this room that
looks like a hospital room--
>>EMERY: Hm.
>>ADAIR: --with a bed and the
oxygen things and all that.
And I thought, well,
this doesn't look good.
They wheel in this big stainless
steel table, and I'm going,
oh, brother.
So I grab a chair and
commence going at it,
and I'm overpowered.
Rudolph comes in next with
his friends in lab coats.
I'm stripped naked.
I'm tied to this table.
Rudolph looked at me.
He said, been waiting
to see you again.
And he throws this
cloth on this table
and it was all these
needles and little vials.
And I'm looking, trying
to read the bottles.
And I'm seeing sodium
pentothal, sodium barbital,
all the sodium family.
>>EMERY: Truth-telling serums.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
Man, they stick it in in this
hand, right on that vein,
and it feels like liquid fire.
And it got up to
right about my neck,
and that's the last I remember.
You're only supposed to
be under for 30 minutes.
>>EMERY: They mind
swept you, yeah.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
30 minutes is the limit.
They went at me for three
days, day and night.
And I came around somewhere
a day and a half into it.
And I was laying there, and
I can remember one guy saying
to Rudolph, if you do him again,
he's going to be an eggplant,
you know.
And Rudolph said, I don't care.
>>EMERY: You'll
be all gorked out.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I need to know the info out of
the construction of this fusion
device.
So he was sitting in
there by whoever, CIA
probably, still after
the first strike device,
and they can't get it.
So I finally come back
to and I'm laying there.
You ever come out from under
this stuff, it's amazing.
You can talk and
answer questions,
but you're not there.
Lights are on, but
there ain't nobody home.
>>EMERY: No one's there.
>>ADAIR: So I finally
focused into where
everybody's in the room.
And the guy is
asking me a question.
He said, how do you
feel about missiles?
I ain't building any
more, I can tell you that.
And so he comes back,
goes outside the room.
You hear people out there.
He comes back in.
How do you feel
about jet engines?
I went, they're defensive.
I could work on that.
So they tell me, you're
not going to Camp Lejeune.
You're going to Great
Lakes, Illinois.
You're in the Navy.
>>EMERY: Oh, my.
>>ADAIR: And they
get through there,
and then they send me to
Pensacola, the Naval training
schools.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>ADAIR: Well, I graduated
first in my class,
and they sent me to Norfolk.
>>EMERY: Good old Norfolk.
>>ADAIR: They were
stuck on something.
This is 1972, '73.
And you know what Norfolk
was at that moment?
Detroit of the F-14.
>>EMERY: Really?
>>ADAIR: That's
where it was built.
>>EMERY: That's right.
>>ADAIR: So I'm sitting
there, and they told me,
we've got 5,000
engineers stymied
on the turbines of the F-14.
They cannot find to get a ratio,
you know, one to 15, one to 16.
The power needed, this is going
to be a fighter bomber, first
of its kind.
So I looked at it.
I said, what's your problem?
And they show me the problem and
said, what can you do for it?
Let me sit down
and work with them.
So I'm working on
it, working on it.
In about three weeks,
I'm done, and I give them
a set of turbines, one to 26,
10 times what they could get.
And the F-14's power plant
was born and so was the F-14.
>>EMERY: Mm.
>>ADAIR: I was 19
when I did that.
There was so much work to
do in conventional world.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: And they
found out that I
was like, you know, just
a born problem solver.
>>EMERY: You were more
effective with that.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
The Navy soon found out this
boy's handier than a button
on a shirt.
Everything we throw
on him, he fixes.
>>EMERY: Amazing story.
>>ADAIR: But I sure mopped
out some problems for them.
>>EMERY: You sure did.
And because of you, I think
the world's a better place.
Thank you, David, for
coming on the show.
>>ADAIR: Thanks for having me.
Glad to be here.
>>EMERY: And until next
time, I'm Emery Smith.
We'll see you then.
[THEME MUSIC]